en.wikipedia.org
The Ascension crake is an extinct flightless bird that previously lived on Ascension Island in the South Atlantic Ocean. Like many other flightless birds on isolated islands, it was a rail. It was declared extinct by Groombridge in 1994; BirdLife International confirmed this in 2000 and 2004. The bird was endemic to Ascension Island. Numerous subfossil bones of the bird have been found in deposits at the base of vertical fumaroles. Peter Mundy, a 17th-century merchant and traveler gave an account of the bird and made a sketch of it when he visited Ascension Island in June 1656. It was described by Mundy as: a strange kind of fowle, much bigger then our sterlings ore stares: collour gray or dappled, white and blacke feathers intermixed, eies red like rubies, wings very imperfitt, such as wherewith they cannot raise themselves from the ground. They were taken running, in which they are exceeding swift, helping themselves a little with their wings , shortt billed, cloven footed, that can neither fly nor swymme. It most likely lived in the near-desert areas of the island and primarily ate sooty tern eggs. It is probable that it became extinct after rats were introduced to the island in the 18th century, but it may have survived until the introduction of feral cats in 1815. The bird was regarded by Storrs Olson as a relative of Atlantisia rogersi, but recent analysis has shown that the differences between the two are greater than previously appreciated. The new genus Mundia was created in 2003.

ebird.org


datazone.birdlife.org
Red List Category Click here for more information about the Red List categories and criteria Justification of Red List categoryThis species was known from Ascension Island, St Helena, but is now Extinct. The only record of the species comes from 1656 and it is thought to have succumbed to predation by introduced rats and cats. Population size: Population trend: Country endemic: No Recommended citation BirdLife International Species factsheet: Mundia elpenor. Downloaded from http://www.birdlife.org on 20/01/2022. Recommended citation for factsheets for more than one species: BirdLife International IUCN Red List for birds. Downloaded from http://www.birdlife.org on 20/01/2022.

birdsoftheworld.org
Unlock thousands of full-length species accounts and hundreds of bird family overviews when you subscribe to Birds of the World. Each species account is written by leading ornithologists and provides detailed information on bird distribution, migration, habitat, diet, sounds, behavior, breeding, current population status, and conservation. An extensive multimedia section displays the latest photos, videos and audio selections from the Macaulay Library.

en-academic.com


uk.inaturalist.org
iNaturalist UK is the product of a membership agreement between the iNaturalist Network and the National Biodiversity Network Trust, the Marine Biological Association and the Biological Records Centre.

dibird.com


www.oiseaux.net


www.encyclo.co.uk


www.pinterest.com


www.wikidata.org


xeno-canto.org


avibase.bsc-eoc.org
Order: Gruiformes Family: Rallidae Genus: Mundia Scientific: Mundia elpenor Citation: Olson, 1973 Reference: Smiths.Contrib.Zoology p.ii,7 Protonym: Atlantisia elpenor Avibase ID: 350C5D1E6592C53E Short link: https://avibase.ca/350C5D1E Taxonomic Serial Number: Geographic range: Mundia elpenor: Extinct. Formerly occurred on Ascension Island; may have survived until 1815 Source: Clements checklist English: Ascension Flightless Crake Catalan: Rascló de l'illa de l'Ascensió Czech: chřástal ascensionský Danish: Ascension-muserikse German: Ascensionralle Spanish: Polluela de Ascensión Spanish : Polluela de Ascensión Finnish: ascensioninluhtakana French: Râle d'Ascension Croatian: asensionska kokošica Hungarian: Ascencion-szigeti guvat Italian: Rallo di Ascensione Japanese: アセンションクイナ Dutch: Ascensionral Polish: chruścielowiec atlantycki Russian: Бескрылый пастушок Slovak: chriašteľ ascensionský Serbian: Petlovan sa ostrva Asension Swedish: ascensionrall Ukrainian: Пастушок атлантичний Chinese: 阿森松秧鸡 Chinese : 亞欣森秧雞 Highlight taxa in a checklist none Avibase taxonomic concepts Avibase taxonomic concepts v. 01 Avibase taxonomic concepts v. 02 Avibase taxonomic concepts v. 03 Avibase taxonomic concepts v. 04 Avibase taxonomic concepts v. 05 Avibase taxonomic concepts v. 06 Avibase taxonomic concepts v. 07 Avibase taxonomic concepts v. 08 Birdlife checklist version 00 Birdlife checklist version 01 Birdlife checklist version 02 Birdlife checklist version 03 Birdlife checklist version 04 Birdlife checklist version 05 Birdlife checklist version 05.1 Birdlife checklist version 06 Birdlife checklist version 06.1 Birdlife checklist version 07 Birdlife checklist version 08 Birdlife checklist version 09 Birdlife checklist version 09.1 HBW and BirdLife Taxonomic Checklist v2 HBW and BirdLife Taxonomic Checklist v3 HBW and BirdLife Taxonomic Checklist v4 HBW and BirdLife Taxonomic Checklist v5 HBW and BirdLife Taxonomic Checklist v6 Clements, version 2021 Clements, version 2019 eBird version 2019 eBird version 2021 Handbook of the Birds of the World and Birdlife Handbook of the Birds of the World and Birdlife IOC World Bird Names, version 3.1 IOC World Bird Names, version 3.2 IOC World Bird Names, version 3.3 IOC World Bird Names, version 3.4 IOC World Bird Names, version 3.5 IOC World Bird Names, version 4.1 IOC World Bird Names, version 4.2 IOC World Bird Names, version 4.3 IOC World Bird Names, version 4.4 IOC World Bird Names, version 5.1 IOC World Bird Names, version 5.2 IOC World Bird Names, version 5.3 IOC World Bird Names, version 5.4 IOC World Bird Names, version 6.1 IOC World Bird Names, version 6.2 IOC World Bird Names, version 6.3 IOC World Bird Names, version 6.4 IOC World Bird Names, version 7.1 IOC World Bird Names, version 7.2 IOC World Bird Names, version 7.3 IOC World Bird Names, version 8.1 IOC World Bird Names, version 8.2 IOC World Bird Names, version 9.1 IOC World Bird Names, version 9.2 IOC World Bird Names, version 10.1 IOC World Bird Names, version 10.2 IOC World Bird Names, version 11.1 IOC World Bird Names, version 11.2 Working Group Avian Checklists, version 0.01 Zoonomen - Zoological Nomenclature Resource

m.facebook.com


www.amazon.ae


